In this lecture, we look at locate him by name.
So what is the h html name attribute?
The name attribute specifies a name for the element.
For former elements.
It is also used as a reference when the data is submitted.
We can target an element by using the name value.
If we take a look at the below code snippet we use in driver defined element by dot name and within
the double quotes we provide in the name value.
Let's look at an example.
So I'm going to open up Google Chrome again and I'm going to go to the automation testing decode at
UK website.
And on the home page I'm going to click the Contact US form link.
This should then present the following Contact US form.
I'm then going to press F12 on my keyboard to open up the Chrome developer panel.
I'm then going to select the selector tool.
And then I'm going to click the first name filled.
And if we look at the HTML, you should see it highlighted.
And if we look at the name attributes, we can see that this element has a name value of first underscore
name.
So we can use this in our selenium test.
So I'm going to minimize the browser and I'm going to go back to Eclipse and I'm going to close this
class from last lecture.
But with the class from the last lecture still highlighted, I'm going to press control C in control
V on my keyboard to copy and paste it.
On doing so I need to provide this new class and name.
So by maintaining the naming convention, as explained earlier, I'm going to call this one zero free
for lecture.
Free underscore.
Locate him by name and then click.
Okay.
This one and create the new class.
And if I double click it to open it, you should see the following code.
So there is only minor differences between this code and the code from the previous lecture.
So the first thing is we need to change this, drive a dot, get address to point two, this new contact
us form a web page.
So I'm going to copy that New York URL and I'm going to go back to the class and I'm going to replace
the existing value.
Next.
I need to change the last line of this code because instead of driver find by IP, we can instead use
driver defined by name.
So as we know, the first field has a name value of first underscore name.
So I'm going to highlight that and I'm going to copy it and I'm going to go back to Eclipse.
I'm going to delete this line.
And I'm going to write Driver.
Dot.
Find element.
Thoughts?
Name?
And inside the brackets and within double quotes.
I'm going to place that name value.
And then at the end of this line, I'm going to add a semicolon.
So I need to prove that we are now interacting with the correct elements.
In the last lecture, I did this using the Click Command because it was a button.
But as it is a text field, I'm going to use a command called Dot.
Send keys and send keys allows us to send a text value to an element.
So I'm going to sing saying keys and in brackets and we've been double quotes.
I'm going to provide a string value of ABC D and a semicolon that ended that line.
I'm then going to press control s on my keyboard to save this class.
If we quickly go over the last line of code again, I'm using by a name to search for an element that
has a name value of first underscore name and same keys is a command that we can use to send a string
value to an element.
So I'm going to right click this class select run as and select Java application and let's see what
happens.
So we can see that the string value of ABCD has been sent to that first element.
So we know our code works correctly.
So this is how we can interact with elements using the name attributes.
Thank you for watching.